During his earthly ministry, Jesus miraculously healed many sick or disabled persons.
At times, he would say to such ones, the expression we find at Matthew 9.29,
according to your faith, let it happen to you.
The principle of what Jesus stated applies in every aspect of our Christian life and ministry.
But today, we would discuss how this principle that faith in Jehovah makes things happen
can work for us in three areas.
We will see, number one, how our faith has made positive things happen in our personal life.
Two, how we can accomplish things in God's service that would not be possible without faith in Jehovah God.
And three, how faith moves us to step out of our comfort zone to do more in Jehovah's service.
The principle faith in Jehovah makes things happen is well illustrated in one of the miracles Jesus performed.
Please open your Bible to Mark chapter 5 and let's read verses 25 to 29.
Now, there was a woman who had had a flow of blood for 12 years.
She had suffered much at the hands of many physicians and had spent all her resources.
And she was no better, but rather had become worse.
When she heard the reports about Jesus, she came up behind him in the crowd and touched his outer garment.
For she kept saying, if I touch just his outer garments, I will get well.
And immediately her flow of blood dried up and she sensed in her body that she had been healed of the grievous sickness.
In the following verses, Jesus asked who had touched him, the woman then reveals before the crowd,
but she had done and how she'd been cured.
Now, notice Jesus' response in verse 34.
He said to her,
daughter,
your faith has made you well.
Go in peace and be healed from your grievous sickness.
What comforting words Jesus spoke to this trembling woman, your faith has made you well.
What did Jesus mean?
Let's examine the account more closely.
It says that the woman heard reports about Jesus.
Many others heard the same reports, but not all put faith in Jesus.
And think of the circumstances that could have prevented her from even coming to Jesus.
She had been disappointed many times over the past 12 years.
She might well have thought, what's the use?
I'm tired and weak and poor.
I am staying home.
Or I would like for Jesus to see me, but there is such a crowd.
How will I ever get through to him?
And after all, I'm in an unclean state.
And if the people discover this, perhaps they will punish me.
No, she did not allow these negative thoughts or doubts to fill her mind.
She left her home.
She found Jesus despite the large crowd.
And what was she saying?
Did she say, if I touched just his outer garments, maybe I will get well?
No, she said, I will get well.
Now, it was not the case that her faith healed her.
No, but her faith moved her to come to Jesus.
And she was healed by the power from Jehovah that flowed through his Son.
Faith to approach Jesus made it happen for her.
If you are a dedicated baptized Christian, don't you agree that your faith has already made positive things happen in your personal life?
No, you were not miraculously healed of your physical sicknesses.
We look forward to physical healing of our eels during the thousand-year reign of Christ.
But today, Jesus Christ directs a program of spiritual healing.
When we were a part of this godless world, many of us were sick, spiritually, morally, and emotionally.
No one could cure us.
Perhaps we desperately tried material things or pleasures to feel our spiritual need, but our condition only got worse.
We were helpless and hopeless, but then we heard reports.
The good news of God's kingdom under Christ.
We studied the Bible.
Our faith moved us to make positive changes in our life and to associate with the Christian congregation.
Today, we enjoy good spiritual health and happiness.
Our faith has made it happen.
Faith has also made it possible to accomplish things in God's service that perhaps we never thought we could do.
Please open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 11.
In this portion of Paul's letter to the Hebrews, he focuses on faith.
It begins with a definition of faith, but then starting in verse four,
Paul acts as a sort of tour guide walking us through the corridor of thousands of years of Bible history.
He stops along the way to point out the extraordinary things that men and women of the past did by means of faith in Jehovah God.
Just glance down the columns in this chapter and notice how Paul introduces each paragraph with the words
by faith.
This expression by faith appears 18 times in this one chapter.
Now, when we look at the names Paul lists in this chapter,
we may think, well, these were spiritual giants.
But in reality, they were ordinary humans with weaknesses like all of us have today.
The thing they all had in common was faith and faith in Jehovah made it possible for them to do amazing things.
Let's look at some of them and compare what they did with what many of you are doing today by faith.
Let's read verse five.
By faith, Enoch was transferred so as not to see death and he was nowhere to be found because God had transferred him.
For before he was transferred, he received the witness that he had pleased God well.
The book of Jude verses 14 and 15 informs us that Enoch boldly proclaimed that Jehovah was going to destroy that ungodly world.
It appears that wicked, violent men were going to take Enoch's life because of his bold witness.
So God chose to take him that is gently cutting short his life, sparing him the pangs of a violent death in modern times like Enoch.
Many brothers and sisters have boldly declared God's judgments even when faced with death.
One brother after receiving a death sentence at Nazi hands during World War II wrote these words shortly before his execution.
I have such peace, such tranquility that you can't possibly imagine.
Faith made such boldness and calmness possible.
In many ways, you very likely have shown the same faith as Enoch.
By faith, you stand up to an ungodly world by not adopting its corrupt ways.
By faith, you boldly declared God's word from house to house and in public places.
Before you became a baptized witness, you may have thought you would never do this preaching work, but you are doing it.
Sometimes, even in the face of verbal abuse and opposition, faith has made it happen.
Let's read verse 7.
By faith Noah, after receiving divine warning of things not yet seen, showed godly fear and constructed an ark for the saving of his household.
And through this faith, he condemned the world and he became an heir of the righteousness that results from faith.
Nothing in the Bible indicates that Jehovah chose Noah to construct an ark because he was an experienced builder.
Certainly, he never had built such a gigantic vessel as what Jehovah'd asked him to construct.
Noah likely pondered many questions.
How will I get all the building materials?
Do I have the right tools to do the job?
How will I gather all the animals?
What food will they need and how much?
When exactly will the deluge begin?
How long will it last?
Where will the ark land after the flood subsides?
Nothing in the record indicates that Jehovah gave Noah all the details in advance.
What Noah did have was faith.
Faith moved him to begin building his faith saved him and his family.
Faith in Jehovah made it happen.
Like Noah during this time of the end, Jehovah's people have taken on challenging theocratic building projects.
Certainly constructing the new world headquarters at Warwick, New York was one of these projects that required much faith.
A committee of brothers was assigned to complete this vast project in less than four years to do so.
They knew they had to begin by July 2013.
They moved ahead in faith.
Though the town had not yet approved the site permits, they began inviting workers to the site with that date in mind.
Time was passing quickly.
The invited volunteers were buying plane tickets.
Bethel was arranging rooming and other details.
Yet the committee still did not have site permits.
Would they cancel these invitations?
They state we spent a lot of time praying about it.
We decided we needed to act in faith and we were just convinced Jehovah was going to make it happen.
As the deadline approached, the brothers had done everything possible to obtain the permits.
The town planning board was holding a public hearing.
And so the brothers' great surprise, within 15 minutes of the start of the meeting, the town board voted to approve the project.
These oversteers commented,
when the approval came through, we knew it was only by Jehovah's spirit that that happened.
But it was also the brothers' faith to act that made it happen.
Those experiences are found in the video, World Headquarters history is being written.
You can find it in the R-Activity section under the Construction Category.
Now let's read Hebrews 11-8.
By faith, Abraham, when he was called, obeyed by going out to a place he was to receive as an inheritance.
He went out, although not knowing where he was going.
What faith it took for Abraham and his submissive wife, Sarah, to leave the prosperous city of her
and go wherever Jehovah would lead them,
and went leaving the security of a pleasant home,
and moving to some strange and potentially hostile land,
some 1,000 miles or 1,609 kilometers away.
Do we see such faith today?
Absolutely.
Since 2014, thousands of brothers and sisters have attended the school for Kingdom Evangelizers,
agreeing to be assigned to wherever there is a need by the organization.
Faith has made it happen.
When a call goes out for skilled volunteers to help build or expand branch facilities,
faith moves brothers and sisters to simplify their lives
and to leave their comfort zone in order to assist.
For example, in 2009, the congregations in the United States
were informed that an expansion project at Wal-Kill New York was being planned.
One couple moved out of their newly built 2,200 square foot
or 200 square meter dream home
and into a 270 square foot or 25 square meter apartment
so that they could make themselves available.
What happened? They explained.
One month after we moved into our small apartment,
we received an invitation to serve as temporary volunteers at Wal-Kill.
It was clear to us that by simplifying our life,
we had given Jehovah something to bless.
Faith made it happen for them.
So what have we learned today?
Faith in Jehovah God is a powerful motivating force
that impels us to act in harmony with His will.
Jehovah rewards such faith.
Remember, the very meaning of the name of our God, Jehovah,
is He causes to become.
Truly, He is a God who makes things happen.
Brothers and sisters, let us continue to act in faith.
Jehovah will continue to make wonderful things happen
in our personal life.
We will accomplish things we never could do
through our own personal efforts.
We were able to do more in Jehovah's service.
May it happen to you according to your faith.